# July 8th, 2023

## Third day of work

### Intro

Today has been quite the busy day. I had birthday porch coffee for a friend, so I woke up early to clean the house, prep the food, make the coffee and generally get ready for hosting the event. Then everyone came over, and we had a wonderful time chatting, hanging out and having fun for several hours. Unfortunately, we made quite a mess so once everyone left I spent some time cleaning everything up.

Next, I helped a friend of mine move. Thankfully she was only moving across Pittsburgh, so it wasn't a huge deal. Things also went along quicker since I brought my minivan, so we could stuff it full of her belongings and hit the road without making a return trip. After unloading the things at her house, I got Chipotle then came home. Now I'm here. I might be extremely exhausted, but I've got some work to do.

### Goal

How to use compute shaders is still a bit of a question for me, so today I'm going to commit more time just to reading and researching them before I implement anything. After having a few days to think about it, going all-in on fluid dynamics might be a bit...too ambitious so I'm going to take things slowly, read a bit more and try to better-gague just how much work compute shaders will be overall.

### End of Day write-up

I decided to start by backing-up a few chapters in GPU Gems. Chapter 37 was especiially relevant, as it contains a lot of tools/methods on how to actually manipulate memory once it's in the GPU. This can help make certain operations easier using methods like Reduce, Search and Sort.

It seems that the deeper the get here, the more I end up jumping around as I look for the information I think I want. As I get through specific articles and chapters of text books, I want to finish them even if they aren't particularly relevant to what I'm reading, but unfortunately it eats up more time and ultimately distracts me. I'm not too sure what to do here.

I read an article about flow control in the GPU. It had a lot of interesting techniques and strategies on how to skip unecessary work and reduce time for branching logic. The coolest technique to me was Z-Culling branching logic, however it has quite a few limitations that make it not...the best in every situation. It's nice for situations with fixed conditions though. Another technique that was obvious but I never thought of is just moving branch logic up the pipeline to earlier stages so it's easier to evaluate. It's simple, but nice.

One thing I keep seeing in these articles is the term 'Fragment Program'. I'm not familiar with this term, so I think I'm going to investigate that a little more to see what exactly that is, and if it's an underlying technique I can utilize.

Ok it seems that fragment programs is just another term for fragment shaders, or pixel shaders. Unfortunately it's not quiite what I was looking for, but it does clarify a few things in the articles I've read so far.

One convenient thing I've noticed about writing shaders specifically is that when I'm researching I can also look at tutorials for engines like Unity and Unreal, as writing shaders in those engines is the same. This definitely opens up what I can read and look at to get information.

Ok this Unity tutorial I'm reading is a god-send for me (link: https://www.ronja-tutorials.com/post/050-compute-shader/). The reason I say that is because this person is making their compute shader do something super simple: calculate sphere positions. I think seeing a compute shader doing something so simple has somewhat dispelled my notion that I need to learn this tool with some grand, complex graphics technique. I think instead it'll be better to start smaller, and just do some simple math my program can use in a different shader.

I think that's a good place to leave it for today. I did a lot of reading and research, and I ended with a nice revelation that will change my direction for future sessions this month. Overall, I'm happy with what I learned today!