# July 15th, 2023

## Sixth day of work

### Intro

Tonight we're celebrating a friend's birthday! We got him a gift as a group, and we're going to one of my favorite noodle houses in the city! I can't wait to give the give and hang out with everyone; I think it'll be a wonderful time. Afterwards we're thinking of going to a pool hall to play for a while since he likes pool a lot, which I'm fine with. It'll be a good time as long as I'm with friends.

### Goal

I'm going to try a different approach. I'm still having trouble binding resources (RWStructuredBuffer and a cbuffer) to the compute shader, so I'm going to try to bind ONLY the cbuffer to start with and see where I'm going wrong there. Afterwards I'll work on the structured buffer. Hopefully I can make some progress here.

### End of Day write-up

I think the reason my resources aren't binding is because of the weird memcpy step I'm doing in the middle. Essentially I'm doing things the wrong way, and I didn't realize. The way my data currently is, is that I keep copying bad data into the gpu d3d11 buffer every frame, when in reality I should only be passing in the initial data once and having it ONLY be updating on the GPU. I missed that, and I think that extra layer of complexity is causing issues for my compute shader functioning properly. I'm currently hoping that's the issue. Unfrotunately, it means I'm going to need to rethink my approach to updating the particle data.

I'm going to take a minute here to write out my updated plan on handling particle data moving forward. Here's a small list of the functionality I'd need to move from the CPU to the GPU:

- Emitting particles
- Tracking alive/dead particles
- Updating particles

Of these 3, the final one is the easiest. Updating them isn't a huge deal since I have the data I need for that. Emitting them also shouldn't be a huge problem, as it's just some random number generation to get random positions/velocities for the particles. Now tracking alive/dead particles is the one I'm not sure about. Currently I have two indices in the emitter class which track the start/end of the alive particles in my particle array. These numbers are updated when a particle is emitted. Since there's a large chain of if statements to properly look through the particle array, I want to see if I can keep tracking on the cpu.

For tracking, I think I have a good plan. I can utilize thread dispatching to my advantage here. If I assume my entire particle data array lives on the gpu, I can just pass a starting index variable into my compute shader via a cbuffer. That data can just say "add this number to the current thread number to get the proper array point to access". I think that will make it so I'm always accessing the proper spot in the particle data array.

I think for updating and emitting particles, those should be two separate compute shaders. This'll give me more flexibility as it means I can be more deliberate with which actions are happening and when. It also means I can use parallelism to emit many particles at once, which is kinda cool. The ideal here is that I won't need to change my vertex and pixel shaders for particles, and only worry about the compute shaders.

So that's the plan! Keep alive/dead tracking on the cpu, and just pass in a starter index for emissions/updating compute shaders. That should give me the ability to keep ALL of the particle data on the gpu, and minimize calculations on the cpu.

Ok I lied. I was being silly and forgot to set the array back to the new particle data! I just added the line 'ParticleData[DTid.x] = p;' and everything worked! I feel really silly after coming up with that awesome design above. So...I guess that's a wrap for today? I'll admit I'm left a little unsatisfied after that resolution, but at least everything works?