# July 12th, 2023

## Fourth day of work

### Intro

I've begun planning a trip to Ireland for early December. My sister is doing a semester abroad in Dublin, so my brother and I want to visit her and take a nice week-long vacation over there. We've got the hotel and plane tickets booked, so now I just need to find stuff to actually do while we're over there. I'm excited though, since I haven't been on a real vacation in a while! I'm sure it'll be a wonderful time!

### Goal

My college's game dev program has a discord server with a lot of alumni that are in-industry now. I asked how to do compute shaders there, and got a lot of help and assistance on how to actually make them work! With that knowledge, I'm now ready to implement my own compute shader in my engine! I think today is going to be spent setting one up, and maybe trying to hook it up to my particle emitters for physics updates or something.

### End of Day write-up

So I should come clean about this: the engine I started with here was built using starter code from my first graphics programming class. As such, there are a lot of abstraction classes and methods built by my professor to essentially make development in DX11 easier. One of these is SimpleShader. It's meant to make creating shaders and their resources a lot easier, since instead of writing a bajillion lines to create a shader blob or buffers, you instead just call some methods to handle that for you. It's really nice.

Why do I bring this up? Well, I was getting ready to write my own version of SimpleShader for compute shaders when...my professor already did that! I admit, it feels a little like cheating but it's certainly a welcome way to cut down my workload. So with that being said, shoutouts to Chris Casciolli for writing this and letting me use it!

So here's where things get interesting for me. I want to insert my compute shader into my emitters and how they update/render particles. I end up doing most of the updating (moving vertices by physics, etc) in the vertex shader. I think this would be a good way to implement a compute shader, but I need to figure out a few more logistical details of it, like how to properly pass-through the index of the particle I'm updating. That's the big one, but I also need to hook up the shader and calling it to the update method in the emitter class.

I'm glad that with each day, compute shaders seem more approachable to me. It's a really nice feeling to understand more and more of these, as it feels like a really powerful tool (if I can find more stuff to use them for).