# July 16th, 2023

## Seventh day of work

### Intro

Today is a nice and chill day for me! I'm going to relax, take things easy and do some more graphics programming! I don't have much going on today, so there unfortunately ins't much to say here beyond that.

### Goal

Well I managed to fix my compute shaders yesterday, which is an extremely nice feeling. However...I kinda still want to use the system I designed yesterday. I think it'll be really cool to implement, and a fun challenge! So today I'm going to work on moving EVEN MORE of my particle emitters to the GPU just to increase efficiency and feel cool about doing it!

### End of Day write-up

Already I've encountered an interesting hurdle: random numbers aren't really supported in HLSL. As of now I see two ways around this: generate the random numbers in the cpu and just pass them in, or I write a random number method in my compute shader. I think for now I'll do the first option since it's a little bit easier, and I might revisit this issue later.

Writing the emit shader was actually pretty easy! Thankfully I was able to avoid branches in the shader with some clever math, so that takes a huge load off my back! Most of the rest of the work is just going to be done in the emitter class, making it so it handles all the data on the GPU instead of the cpu.

Not much to say that's been crazy here. I've just been plugging away at the tedious work to implement this. I think one of the more interesting challenges is the following use case: my livingIndex > deadIndex, and I'm trying to spawn multiple particles at once. I think what I might do is just something like particleId %= maxParticles. That SHOULD help wrap around in case I go out of the bounds of my particleData array.