# July 3rd, 2023

## First day of work

### Intro

Today was a fairly slow day, with not much to talk about. Work is going steady, but I am very excited for a new month and a new project/focus! I think it'll really shake things up!

Unfortunately my keyboard is starting to not work properly. I will often have keys do multiple iinputs when I only press the key once, and sometimes no nputs will happen! It's really consistent and annoying, and I'm not sure how to solve it. I spent an hour cleaning the keyboard yesterday, but that doesn't seem to have done much. But the keyboard did need to be cleaned.

### Goal

Today's goal is twofold: research how to do a chromatic aberration effect, and refamiliarize myself with my engine by implementing said-effect. I'm not sure how easy/difficult these two tasks are going to be, or if I'm even going to finish it today. Only time will tell...

### End of Day write-up

Turns out the chromatic aberration effect is much simpler than I thought. Looking at shadertoy.com, I was able to find a few examples. It seems like I'll need 3 major pieces of data: an offset, a direction for the effect, and an effect strength variable. Then you just calculate a new position with these variables, and make that for each RGB channel then output. I'm simplifying a bit, but the process is fairly straitforward. I imagine re-learning the engine will be more challenging/tedious at this rate.

After working on it for a bit, I think I had the situation backwards: my engine was really easy to understand and work through (I was able to setup a new MRT and post-process pass in about 5min). The problem is chromatic aberration might be a tad more difficult than I thought. The meathods I've tried didn't quite work, so now I'm looking up literature online about it. Unfortunately, I haven't found much that is easily-digestible for me.

I was wrong! The chromatic aberration effect (faking it anyway) was also easy! I just wasn't setting my cbuffer data correctly! I feel like I do this quite often where I miss small things, which can make a big difference when programming. I feel like that's why I work better in environmnets where I can rapidly test and make changes to code, rebuild and test again so I can iron-out these small issues. That's just sort of how I work.