# July 18th, 2023

## Eighth day of work

### Intro

I initially wasn't planning on seeing it, but I got invited to see Oppenheimer with friends when it comes out this Friday. I think it'll be a good time, so I'm looking forward to it! Beyond that, I got my first dyno in climbing! It's pretty cool that I can now jump for holds while climbing. I can feel cool about myself!

### Goal

Today I'm giong to be continuing work on implementing the GPU-side particles. I think today is going to be managing resource binding, memcpy calls and just reworking the emitter class to function a little better. I also had some time to think through how to handle my alive/dead indexes when emitting particles. I can just make two dispatch calls so I don't go out of bounds on the array! I don't know why I didn't think of that sooner!

### End of Day write-up

Last time I was worried about how to handle random numbers in HLSL, but I may have found a way! I need to explore it more, but there is a built-in noise function that generates perlin noise. I'm wondering this: if I just call the noise function with no inputs, will it give me a truly random value between -1 and 1? If so, I can use this function to get numbers back I can use as scalars to multiple the components of a range vector by, thus giving me a random vector. Since the value needs an input, I can just use the thread number as an input here.

It seems that since I'm sharing a lot of resources between multiple shaders, I'm starting to get some d3d11 errors around that. The current one is:

> D3D11 WARNING: ID3D11DeviceContext::CSSetUnorderedAccessViews: Resource being set to CS UnorderedAccessView slot 0 is still bound on input! [ STATE_SETTING WARNING #2097354: DEVICE_CSSETUNORDEREDACCESSVIEWS_HAZARD]
> D3D11 WARNING: ID3D11DeviceContext::CSSetUnorderedAccessViews: Forcing VS shader resource slot 0 to NULL. [ STATE_SETTING WARNING #3: DEVICE_VSSETSHADERRESOURCES_HAZARD]

That's not great. It seems that in my haste to share the same UAV between my compute shaders, I've messed up how it should be handled. I'll need to investigate this more.

So I don't think this will fix the issue, but I want to be a little more efficient with the data I'm copying into my compute shaders. To that end, I think I can split my cbuffer into two: one for per-frame data, and one for per-particle data. This will at least make data-copying a little cleaner. Not sure how the bug fixing is going to go, however.

I fixed the above error. When the vertex shader runs, I just made sure to set its SRV reference to nullptr after it draws, so that I don't get this UAV binding issue. Unfortunately nothing is drawing right now...

I found the cause! I moved one of my compute shaders in the solution, and I think it's messing up filepaths now and not building/compiling correctly. The .cso version of the shader isn't where the program thinks it is! Now I need to figure out how to fix this.

I've run into a major issue here at the end of the day: I didn't account for checking a particle's age to indicate death on the GPU. As such, every particle spawns and instantly dies since I'm not storing any of the particle data on the cpu. The cpu doesn't know how old any particles are, so it just assumes they've already died. This'll be an interesting issue to figure out, but I think I can crack this one. Next time, that is!