# July 22nd, 2023

## Ninth day of work

### Intro

I saw Oppenheimer yesterday. It was pretty good, and I enjoyed it a lot! I won't say much more though since I don't want to spoil the movie a day after it came out.

Beyond that, tomorrow is my mom's birthday! We ordered an ice cream cake for her, and she and my dad are doing a celebratory date tonight! It should be a fairly quiet/uneventful birthday, but honestly I think those are really nice as well.

### Goal

So here's the current predicament: the particle emitters don't work. Why? Because in my haste to move all the particle data to the GPU, I forgot to actually properly handle particle lifespans. The lifespan data isn't stored on the CPU, where the emission decision-making happens. As such, I have a few options to handle this problem:

1) Store a separate array of particle lifespans on the CPU, and continue making decisions there (plus make sure the data is synced properly with the GPU).

2) Move more emitter data to the GPU, and figure out a way to handle emissions and lifespan checks on the GPU without too much branching. This would be preferred as it would be geared towards my GPU-first approach for this problem, but it has a lot of unknowns in the specific implementation of it.

3) A hybrid approach, where I send calculated emission times from the GPU BACK to the CPU, and use those to make decisions. It would work, but it's honestly just an uglier version of the first option.

Today is going to be spent drafting up ideas and trying out options 1 and 2 in an attempt to find something that works for this problem. Time to get started!

### End of Day write-up

I found a few other issues while doing this. This relates specifically to how I'm handling drawing and copying the buffer to the GPU. I haven't actually been copying over the entire Particle buffer as intended, only from the living index to the end. The next thing is my draw command isn't running for every particle, but assuming that the buffer only has the living particles in it. This is...going to be an interesting fix. Essentially I need to change how I'm calling draw to understand this it could be starting anywhere in the array, and to handle that appropriately.

I think I can adjust the drawing properly. The issue is that if the particle id goes above the max particle count, it needs to wrap around to the beginning. Thank god the modulus operator exists, otherwise I'd cry. I don't really have to care about array wraparound, since I can just do something like particleId = (startingIndex + threadId) % maxParticles. This means I don't really need to worry about how I'm calling the various shaders, which saves a lot of code. So that's nice.

As an extension of this, I'm passing in a small struct called emitterData. It just holds living/dead indices and max particle count/age. This information should allow me to access the particle data buffer with a lot of flexibility in the shaders, which is what I need right now.

The main question now is this: how do I properly track alive/dead indices on the GPU, and make it so I can know who is alive/not alive? This is going to be the toughest part, and I'm not entirely sure how to do it.

So I think I know what to do here. Unfortunately, the answer does involve another compute shader. Essentially every update pass I'm going to run a compute shader once called "UpdateEmitterData", which just updates the emitter data's living/dead indices. Then in the updateParticle compute shader all I need to do is have a check at the end to update the emitterData's dead index if it's reached max age. Then instead of passing in a starterIndex variable to my update/emite shaders, I just use living index and wrap around the array as needed.

Ok I lied. I don't need to do that! Instead I just need to adjust the living/dead indices in my emit and update shaders using the EmitterData buffer I made! This means I can adjust the correct indices as-needed. The final question is this: how do I actually decide to skip an emit call? That's the one I'm not sure about.

I think I'm in a decent spot now. Mostly everything has been setup, I just need to do some more bugfixing and make sure my resources are getting bound properly. I think that's at least a good wrapping-up point for today though!