# July 13th, 2023

## Fifth day of work

### Intro

I'm very excited. There's two friends I used to hang out with CONSTANTLY in my childhood, but I haven't seen either in a while. I managed to arrange for the three of us to grab dinner next wednesday, and I'm so excited to see both of them together again! I think it'll be a lot of fun!

### Goal

Today is going to be a day of many decisions. The main one is I need to figure out how to edit my particle data, and just how much of the update functionality I want my compute shader to handle. I'm thinking instead of running the shader once for each particle's vertex, it'll be easier to just run it once per perticle and update various details about the particles (like time alive, position, etc). This means I can have an easier time keeping track of the 

### End of Day write-up

I suspect the way I'm going about binding my resources for the compute shader is...not great. My current code has an SRV of particle data being sent to the vertex shader. I want to make a UAV using the same buffer object so I can edit the data and use it in both the compute shader and the vertex shader, however I'm having trouble setting all the description flags properly. I think if I trial-and-error my way through this enough I'll eventually get it right.

I finally fixed all the flags after quite a bit of looking up flags and changing...about all of them for the data buffer I'm using. While the code compiles and it runs, the compute shader's resources still aren't binding for some reason. I suspect there's still something I'm not doing correctly.

I'm checking through every step. It seems that the vertex and pixel shaders for my particle emitters are running perfectly fine. It's just the cbuffer and UAV that I'm trying to set for my compute shaders just...aren't being bound. This is causing the compute shader to skip its code since it has nothing bound. I think I'm going to need to look into this more next time. Unfortunately I'm struggling to find the cause right now.