# July 4th, 2023

## Second day of work

### Intro

Happy July 4th! I'm currently trying to wrangle together plans for tonight with friends. I'm not great with planning events, but I feel like I fall into that role more often than I ever intend. Well...at least it's good practice?

The plan for tonight is to get dinner somewhere then watch the fireworks on Mt Washington, which should give us a beautiful view of Pittsburgh. If we get a good spot, we can see fireworks from multiple different areas! It'll be AMAZING.

### Goal

I want to jump right into compute shaders, since they seem to be a very important part of graphics programming. I know they are used to help offload a lot of work from the CPU into the GPU (usually calculations for data that can be done with paralell processing), to make graphical techniques run much smoother. Unfortunately, I'm not very familiar with many use-cases of them or how to really use them.

With that being said, the first main goal of today is to research everything about compute shaders: how they work, the syntax, and how to use them. After that I might begin actuallly implementing something, but I'm not expecting to get much explicit work done today.

### End of Day write-up

I found 2 bugs in my engine that were easy to fix. The first is that for chromatic aberration, my offset varible wasn't necessary and was just messing with my math. So I cut it out. The second was in my depth-of-field blur effect. It seems I had mixed-up the conditions for checking if we need a blur. After sorting those out the effect seems to work a lot better now.

From my reading it seems I was roughly correct in how to use compute shaders: They're used for data-processing on the GPU. The applications vary from effect processing to physics calculations, with the simplest example I found being a physics calculations for particles in a particle emitter. It seems compute shaders can also be used to calculate data for volumetric simulations, which is quite interesting (and likely VERY complicated). It seems that my research has led me back to an old friend: GPU Gems. I'll be doing some more reading I guess.

Diving into this rabbit hole, it seems that fluid dynamics (for liquid flow or smoke) is a wonderful place to use compute shaders. It's also piqued my interest for how to implement this as a GPU effect as well. I think I'm going to spend the rest of today reading-up on the effect.

