# July 25th, 2023

## Tenth day of work

### Intro

My mom's birthday went well! I'm very happy for that, since with large family gatherings there's always a chance for shenanigans. Beyond that, some friends and I are doing Kennywood this weekend to celebrate a friend's birthday! I haven't been in 2 or 3 years, so I'm very excited for it!

### Goal

Today is going to be hopefully finalizing the gpu-side particle emitters. I have all the systems in place, I just need to figure out the final pieces and iron out bugs (I have no idea what isn't working here). So today is going to be a little exploratory and hopefully productive.

### End of Day write-up

One thing I noticed very quickly is that I don't need to pass in a starting index anymore; that's handled by my EmitterData uav. As such, I removed those and cleaned up some of the variable references to make sure when I emit and kill particles it's happening at the correct indices in emitterData.

I found the issue! It's the way I'm calling the draw command which is messing with things. Essentially, when I call the vertex shader, I'm calling it a number of times equal to my alive particle count x 6. The problem is, I'm no longer storing alive particle count on the CPU, so that number is always zero! So it never gets called!

I have the data on the GPU, so I currently see some paths forward: 

1) I read the alive particle count from the gpu so I can call the vertex shader the correct number of times. This is not ideal.

2) Change my vertex shader rendering paradigm. Call the vertex shader for EVERY particle and use some logic within the shader to essentially cull dead/inactive particles

As of now, I think the second option is more feasible, albeit not ideal since it'll result in a lot of wasted work. Before I continue, I want to see if I can end the vertex shader early and have that process effectively cancel, meaning the thread never reaches further stages. That would at least make it so I don't get junk on the screen.

It seems like I'm getting very close. I have particles rendering correctly, I just have a lot of extra junk on the screen. If I can find a way to kill the vertex shaders early that would be ideal, but I'm not sure if that's a thing. I'm going to leave things there for today, but I'll do some more research on it.