#June 12th, 2023
##Second day of work

###Intro:

One of my friends got married! It was a wonderful wedding, and I'm so happy the wedding went extremely well. Good viibes the entire weekend, no issues and just love/happiness throughout the air. It made me so happy to be there and be friends with both the bride, the groom and everyone else there.
	
###Goal:

So I think my previous approach was somewhat wrong. I did a small amount of research into the startiing blueprint classes, and it turns out that the player character class is...pretty specific with the implementations it has. As such, I think it'll be better for me to use a Pawn Class instead so it can be more generic, have less implemented (read: less internals for me to fight), and should generally be easier to work with. As such, today is going to be based around learning pawns, how to use them and what they're used for.

###End of Day write-up:

The pawn is quite different. When going down the pawn rabbit hole I learned about the Player Controller and how it's meant to interact with pawns. I read through the documentation and said "Good! That sounds like good practice!". Unfortunately I've run into some hiccups. I have two blueprints: P_Bike (Pawn Bike) and C_Bike (Controller Bike). The idea here is P_Bike has basic behaviors (always move along the bike's forward vector) while the controller handles player inputs like turning or speeding up. The major issue I have right now is that I haven't figured out how to connect the controller and pawn together. It seems there is some binding happening in my game mode blueprint as I've set the pawn and controller as their respective defaults, however I just can't seem to get the controller to actually send commands to the pawn.

I like the idea of having a controller control a pawn and swap between multiple different pawns, but until I figure this issue out I'm somewhat stuck.