# June 24, 2023

## Seventh day of work

### Intro:

I just saw a wonderful one-person play called Frida A Self Portrait. It was really good! It was the first one-person play I had ever seen, and I really liked it! It was a combination character-study and biography of Frida Kahlo, a famous Mexican painter. She lived an insane life! But I must admit, the most impressive thing about the play was how during the silent sections where the actress wasn't saying anything, I still knew EXACTLY what was happening. It was riveting. I highly recommend seeing it if you get the chance!

### Goal:

Much like yesterday, I'm going to spend time polishing today. I have many strange behaviors, and I want to fix some of them. Unfortunately, I suspect some of them (like walls scaling strangely) are systemic problems from the implementations I have chosen. Due to the time constraints, I don't think I'll be able to fix those. I want to focus on camera issues today, like fixing up camera collisions and controls. That'll be my focus for today, wish me luck!

### End of day write-up:

Turns out there's two settings in the spring arm component I missed! The first is a checkbox to disable all collision checks. So that solves the collision issue! The second is that the spring arm has an internal offset for the camera component, so I switched to using that instead of moving the camera component in relative space. Not a huge deal, but probably better for the components to use their functions correctly.

Another breakthrough! I figured-out that for each transformation in a component, you can select either relative or world. Selecting world means that the spring arm's rotation won't be further-affected by the bike's rotation! That's what was messing with my camera controls! Thankfully, it's been fixed now and the camera controls feel wonderful!

Another update I made was to change the behavior of the camera-reset input slightly. Instead of just zeroing-out the rotation, I decided to make it so the camera would set itself to the bike's forward vector so the camera would snap to behind the bike. I just think this way is slightly more intuitive.