# June 23, 2023

## Sixth day of work

### Intro:

I started listening to the Avalanches again recently. They have some weird stuff, and some truly pretty songs that are always
 a joy to listen to (Since I Left You comes to mind). They're a band I haven't listened to since back in high school, so it's
 truly been a while. There's also some newer albums for me to go through, and the beginning few songs of We Will Always Love You have been very good. So I'm excited to work through the rest!
 
 I don't know if it's appropriate to type about here, but I feel the need to get it out a little bit. I had a fight with my mom earlier today. I feel bad after the whole thing has been said and done, and I said some quite harsh things in the heat of the moment. Living with my parents has definitely put some strains and pressures again, so I'm thinking it's time I move out just to sort myself and my own issues out without haviing to drag others into it. I'll also need to apologize, but I'm nervous to do so.

### Goal:

Today is going to be a polishing day. I have the movement basics, but they're all quite janky. As such, I want to go back and fix things up to feel better. This includes camera controls especially, and I also want to clean up some of the code for bike walls. The meshes stretch, but they need to be centered. I also need to find a way to create connecting walls between the previous and new ones when the player sends an input. I have some ideas on how to do all these things, so I'll just take today as a free-form problem solving day.

### End of day write-up:

I'm found a nice optimization with my wall scaling. Essentially, when you set the box collider's extents it does something similar to scaling the object. So...why am I updating the extents and then changing the scale when I can just do the scale of the entire object? So that's what I did. In cutting-out those steps I managed to mess-up the part of spawning new walls that sets the wall's location to the proper spot. As of now, the math works-out to where all walls spawn in the same spot which is very strange. I'm not entirely sure what's causing it, but I probably forgot to connect some nodes.

I realized I was not calculating the midpoint of the start and endpoints correctly when setting them. After finding the proper algorithm, I went ahead and fixed that right up! Unfortunately I'm still having some strange behavior with the walls where they scale...strangely when the bike moves in certain directions. I'm not sure what's causing this, but my guess is that the data getting sent-in is weird, and the rotation-reset isn't triggering properly.

Beyond that, I adjusted the camera's position with the spring arm which fixed the zoom-centering issue! Unfortunately it's been replaced by a different problem where the spring arm/camera is colliding with the bike walls so I need to find a way to disable the collision there.