#June 16, 2023
##Third day of work

###Intro:

I learned today that my dog, Elsa, is very afraid of the stovetop. When we tried to light the burner (it's been having problems), she ran downstairs and hid under my desk! I had my sister start the burner while I took Elsa for a walk to calm her down, but poor puppy. I might just have to take her out of the house in the future while others turn on the stove top if I can help it.

###Goal:

I did some research outside of the normal work sessions and I figured out how to bind the controller and pawn! I needed to set the input map as part of the pawn's blueprint script, so now that's hooked-up and working! I like the movement right now, but the camera inputs are a little weird so I'm going to spend some time fixing that up. I have to also see how to manage camera zoom, and see if I can get that working as well. I'm currently using a spring arm with the camera, but I might need to find another route if this doesn't pan out.

###End of day write-up:

I finally got the controls working well! I just needed to be smart about things and hook them up properly. For the camera, I wanted the camera to always be level, so I needed to lockk its sideways rotation around the world's z-axis while the up/downn movement was locked to the spring arm's right axis. That makes it control well. Mixing it with the bike's 3D movement is a bit strange, but it's good for now. I might tailor it a bit further in the future.

The camera zoom was also fairly easy. I just made a zoom rate and I just add/subtract to the spring arm's length based on the scroll-wheel's inputs. I also made a simple keybind that just resets the camera's rotation to a default value. There is some wonkiness with the camera zoom though, where the further you zoom out the less centered the player's pawn is. I'm not entirely sure how to do that, but it'll involve more than just adjusting the spring arm's length.

I think for next time I want to iron-out this camera issue, and move on to generating the light walls that'll be left behind by the player bike. I have some slight ideas on how to do it, but it'll be an interesting process.