# June 30, 2023

## Tenth day of work

### Intro:

I went to try a new cafe today, and after I paid for parking I found out it was closed! I was destroyed. Thankfully parking was only $1, but it was an unfortunate timing for me. Since I was craving a latte, I went over to Starbucks instead and grabbed one. This just means I'll have to wait to try the cafe, and see how it is another time...

### Goal:

For today I want to handle player death (for realsies). There's a bit of complexity here, since when I delete a player bike reference there's a few things I want to happen: clean-up references to said player bike, display a new UI element for it, and add-in a context-sensitive reset button. All of that together might be out of scope for today, but I'm going to try anyway.

### End of day write-up:

While there was a lot of work, I thankfully managed to get the UI and respawn pieces. I ended-up putting in several null checks for various variables, which...feels like I'm using that check too much, but I'm not sure how else to avoid the null-reference errors I was getting. It was essentially "if this object is valid, continue the execution". Nothing super fancy there. But it did feel a little...ugly for the situation.

Making the reset input context-sensitive was actually surprsingly easy! I just made a switch statement based-around the enum I created earlier, and I just picked the correct pin. This makes it so the player can't reset if they're alive. That should keep shenanigans from ocurring...as long as I'm good about managing the player status variable in the proper places.

Since I managed to complete all of my goals for the day, I'm going to spend the rest of the day writing a post-mortem for this project as it's the final day of the month. It was certainly an interesting journey with my first project, and I look forward to doing more! :D