# June 27, 2023

## Eighth day of work

### Intro:

It was a little late, but I got to have a wonderful birthday celebration with my friends this sunday! We played minigolf, then went and got ice cream nearby, and they organized the whole thing for me. I had such a wonderful time, and I'm honestly so blessed to have each and every one of them in my life. Incidentally I've also put together a list of everyone's birthdays so I can play events like this for others in the future!

Beyond that, I finally got my first v2-4 route at my climbing gym! I had been working towards them for several months, but I finally got one! THEN I GOT ANOTHER the same day! It was insane, but I'm glad my climbing skills and pysique are imrpoving.

### Goal:

I want to do one more polish day, this time with bike walls. To put it lightly, they're behaving strangely. They scale weirdly, and theyir rotations are also getting a little silly. I think some numbers and maths haven't been properly thought-out, so once I go in and clean things up they should behave correctly. I think the core logic is there, the math is just a little funky.

### End of day write-up:

The first issue (wall scaling) has been solved! That one was actually pretty quick. Basically, I was approaching the issue the wrong way. Instead of subtracting points from one-another then setting the x-scale to that, I needed to get the distance between the two points. I could then divide that by my original mesh size (then divide by 2 again) to get the final scale to set my walls at! Thankfully Unreal's math library has a built-in node for distance between two vectors. Now the walls behave almost perfectly! I just have a few small elements to smooth-over, then they'll be good to go! The small elements are mainly in turning and creating new walls. Unfortunately, the connector walls don't place themselves in the correct spot. There's also a bit of jank where if the bike turns too much then the wall begins to move with it which is...wrong.

Miraculously before now I've somehow managed to avoid using any sort of logic branching in any of the blueprints I've made. That is, until today! I needed to put a null check right before I call a wall's update function to make sure the current wall variable isn't null. This is to make sure I'm not calling a null reference during a turn, since the wall is supposed to be unset at the beginning of the turn, and fully-replaced at the end of the turn.

So it turns out getting collisions working was really easy. I just needed to have the bike walls and the bike pawns generate hit events when they collide with pawns, and then put the logic for handling a hit event in the bike! I added a flag to bike walls saying if they're the current wall of the player. If so, ignore collision with that wall. Otherwise, it's a hit! I'm glad that process went fairly smooth.