# June 17, 2023

## Fourth day of work

### Intro:

Tonight is the Taylor Swift concert! I'M SO EXCITED FOR IT!!!! I think it'll be a wonderful time, and I'm going with my brother and some other family members. I'm hoping for some good vibes all around. Other than that, I want to hear a lot of singles from Fearless (that's my favorite album of her's).

### Goal:

A lot of my work today is going to be based around finding a way to generate the walls of light that bikes will leave behind. There are a few logistics that go into this, like when do I update the line direction, do I make a new "wall" object when the bike changes directions, and what do I even store the wall as in the engine? 

I think the first question is a lot easier to answer: I just update the line's direction whenever the player gives a turning input! That's the most consistent, event-based way to tell when the wall's direction should change. Implementing that also shouldn't be a problem since I already created an enhanced input action for turning.

The other two questions are going to be much more difficult to answer. The wall object needs to have a few components: a box collider, a mesh and two points (beginning and end points). The beginning point will be set at the turn, while the end point will be updated every tick the bike moves (it'll essentially be tied to the back of the bike). I think these are the bare essentials a wall object will need. The rest is going to be interesting to figure-out.

### End of day write-up:

I think I've found a good direction for the bike wall's generation. There are a lot of moving pieces, but I think it should work as I intend. The crux of this is that I'll be working around an actor blueprint/object I'm making called bike_wall. This object will hold a box collider, a mesh and two points (start/end). When a pawn spawns-in, it'll create a starter wall object. Every tick after moving a pawn will call the wall's update function. This function will update the endpoint and recalculate box collider extents and adjust the wall's mesh accordingly. Every time a turn input is completed, the pawn will create a new wall object and begin updating that one instead, leaving the other one alone in space.

The only unknowns I currently have in this approach are how to stretch the mesh properly. I could try scaling it, but I have no idea how the math will work out for that. I'm also not sure how the completed flag on enhanced input actions is set, so I'll need to look into that more to see if it's what I really want for creating new walls.

On the bright side, I have updating the collider's extents working, and creating the starting wall! The basic pieces work, which is nice because it means I can spend more time on the tougher elements of this problem. Hopefully I can get something good working quickly, but I'm going to remain cautious as I work through this.