June 8th, 2023
First day of work

Idea: 
	
My idea for this project is to make a game that jumps-off a childhood favorite of mine: Light Bikes (hence the name). I want to make a 3D flgiht version of light bikes, where players can fly in a 3D space while always moving forward, and creatinng a wall of light behind them.
	
Goal:
	
The goal of this project is to take a simple idea and use it to learn the Unreal engine. As of now, I know next-to-nothing about the engine and how it works. I want to gain more experience in the engine both for personal use and since it would make for a good skill when seeking a job. Beyond that, I have little expectations with the engine, so I guess we'll see where I end up!
	
End of Day write-up:
	
I think I got a lot done! I managed to work out how enhanced inputs maps and actions work, and get some of the basics done. I'm still having errors with rotatting the player to tilt them up/down while flying, so I'm going to need to look into that more. Currently I have the camera look and left/right movement working. In this case the movement is just going to be turning the player (they're a box). I also want to get some camera zoom going, so I can adjust my view a little bit better as-needed. That one might be interesting to implement, but I have some ideas.
	
My vision also seems to be grating against the physics of the engine a bit. One thing that took a bit to figure out was how to disable graviity. Eventualy I found out that the base bluepriint...compoenent(?) has a bajillion settings in it! I found gravity-scaling and turned it to zero which solved my problem. Unfortunately there's still some sort of issue with velocity and deceleration. I want velocity changes to be instant, not applied over time. I'm going to have to figure out how to change that.
	
One thing that surprised me about blueprints is that they hold a lot more than just scripting; they seem to be a collection of meshes, components and so much more. Honestly they're almost like a more...bundled-together version of Unity's prefabs! I'm still wrapping my head around it, but that's where my current understanding is.
	
Something about the engine that's been annoying me is that I seem to be fighting with a lot of the default settings of it. For example, the rendering quality was set to "Epic" for everything which looked gorgeous but was a nightmare for my performance. I couldn't get above 20fps! Thankfully setting the quality of everything to "Medium" fixed that issue. There's also a lot of other editor settings that have made the workflow quite annoying. The biggest annoyance for me was how if I made a new tab by opening an object, it would be made in a new window instead of just being opened in the main window. Thank goodness I found the setting for that!
	
I don't want this all to be negative though. I like the UI of the editor a lot, and the blueprints especially activate a part of my brain that loves labeling and organizing things so they're neat and pretty. And once I got a handle on the controls, it's super easy to use! Very responsive as well. I'm looking forward to learning more in Unreal as this project goes on!
