# June 17, 2023

## Fourth day of work

### Intro:

The Taylor Swift concert was MAGICAL!!! I was so entranced throughout the entire performance, and it was AMAZING. Beyond that, I also had my birthday this past friday! I'm now 24, so I'm an old man :(

Moving forward, I think the next thing I need to do is start putting together a cover letter for potential job applications in the future. If I'm being honest, I'm a little nervous what to write for it. I don't want to mess it up, but I feel somewhat paralyzed by the prospect of what to write without making it too corny or cheesy. Hopefully I'm not overthinking it.

### Goal:

I think I have a good way to stretch the mesh. Essentially, I'm going to start with the starting width in units of the mesh, 
then just find the width of the box collider then divide the collider's width by the base mesh width thenn scale. That might be a little janky, but it'll hopefully work. Depending on how long that takes, I might then look at collision events for the bike and walls to kill the bike if they run into a wall!

### End of day write-up:

I've made some solid progress today, despite it being a shorter session. I found the key to properly scaling things! I can entirely cut-out the need to account for rotation math by storing the rotation of the wall, resetting it to zero then doing my modifications (changing collider extents, scaling the mesh, etc) then resetting the rotations. By doing this I don't have to worry about any world rotatioins messing with my calculations. And it worked! It's so much easier now!

Currently the main things to work on are polishing the controls, and making connecting bike walls that bridge the gap between the previous and new walls. Hopefully I can connect the two properly to make things look nice. If I can get that polish done, then I can move on to collision detection and player death!

For fixing-up the player controls, there's a few different issues there. The camera look function begins to behave strangely when the bike actor rotates and moves in different directions. It changes the rotation axis of the camera's spring arm, which feels very weird. In addition the camera zoom doesn't keep the bike actor in the center of the screen which looks weird when you zoom out very far. I'm going to need to see if I can straighten things out there.

Another item of polish is the scaling/stretching of the bike wall meshes. Currently the stretch is centered on the object itself, where I want to keep the mesh centered between the start and endpoint of the wall so the mesh lines-up with the collisiion box.