# June 29, 2023

## Ninth day of work

### Intro:

Now that things have settled down a little bit (it's been a busy month!), I want to begin looking towards the future as well. The first part of that is to look at next month's learning objective and project! I already have an idea or two in mind, but essentially I want to get back to doing some graphics programming as I haven't done that in a while. I think it'll be nice to get back into that swing of things.

The next thing I want to look at is my own personal portfolio and resume materials. Sitting around playing Counter Strike all day isn't a good way to advance my career making video games, so I need to put more time towards that goal. This learning project is a wonderful start, but I have more work to do (networking, cover letters, resumes, etc).

Finally I want to put more work towards Palette Swap. The team has kind of gone dark for a while, so I want to develop it a little further and put more work into it. I think it'll be a nice way to reconnect with friends and get some more dev experience overall.

### Goal:

Today I want to look at killing the player! Now that I have walls and collisions setup, I want to investigate how to kill the player's pawn and what the game controller does to handle that. The game controller is still a large unknown for me, so I'd like to explore its functionality and uses more. I think it'll be a very good piece of the engine to figure out. One other thing I want to do is make it so a player controller can have a color that it passes to its bike and then the bike to its walls. To make things pretty!

### End of day write-up:

I've been having trouble focusing so far today, so I've been bouncing between reading on a few of the topics I selected for today's goals. There's some interesting stuff I want to consider, and I figured writing would help me sort out my thoughts and focus more, so let's get into it!

The first thing I decided to look into was materials. My goodness things here snowballed. I wanted to start with a simple color material where I could have a player controller pass the color info into it, and it turns-out that is a much more complex task than I initially thought. I stil haven't fully-explored the topic but it seems to me that I could utiliize Material Parameter Collections for this task. They essentially set values that a material's shader can have access to, but they can also be manipulated by blueprints as well! And that's where the key advantage lies. It means I could give bikes and walls the same generic material, then dynamically update the color data passed-into them as well as other properties like emisseveness, metallicness and others! In theory it's simple to perform, however on the engine-side of things it seems that there are a lot of assets to set-up and create to get this going. A fun idea, but a bit much to implement.

The other thing I looked-into was game modes and game states. These are...interesting since it seems like they're primarily meant for online games and server communication. I anticipated it would set global variables and that's somewhat true, but the focus of these types of classes is around transmitting information betweenn clients and the server, defining the information that needs to be transmitted and syncing things properly. These are absolutely important for implementing multiplayer, but unfortunately I'm not quite there yet. As such, I don't think these classes would be a good avenue for implementing player death. Instead I'm going to explore handling it through UI and the player controller itself. I think if multiplayer were in the question these two classes would be a good place to put death logic, but for the purposes of this project it's out of scope.

I ended-up getting side-tracked with something else entirely! I wanted to try some UI elements, and I have to say. I've fallen in love with the UI editor (or widgets to be more specific) in unreal 5! It's really intuitive and easy to use, as is binding information to the widgets itself. It's just super nice and clean and easy to use. What more could I possibly want? I think for now I'll leave it there today since I explored quite a bit of new stuff. Next time I'll likely take another stab at bike death, since it seems like it'll be a bit more complicated than I originally thought to pull it off properly.